A case where AI failed

On LinkedIn I often read posts that praise or criticize AI in development, but most never provide concrete examples, so here’s a fresh one

Quick preface:
- I’ve used Firebase for years as hosting, but I had never used its Authentication service or Functions (I usually handle everything on the backend).
- For development I use Copilot in VS Code, mainly with GPT-5.2-Codex or Claude Sonnet 4.5; I use it daily and consider it a phenomenal tool, which is why I’m more surprised when it fails than when it gets everything right.

The problem:
For a project I used Firebase for both deploy and authentication.
With the default email verification, the flow is:
👉 email → click → Firebase blank page with a “confirm” button → redirect to the webapp.

The user understandably dislikes the blank page

Constraint: continue using Firebase Auth (at least for now), without renting and configuring a custom mail server.

Describing only the problem this is the solution proposed by Copilot:
❌ "It can’t be done. Rent a crappy mail server."

I suggest using Firebase Functions somehow and modifying the activation link in the email (I didn’t yet have a clear idea how to do it but thought Functions could be used), but the solution proposed by Copilot basically remains unchanged:
❌ "It can’t be done. Rent a crappy mail server."

At this point I went back to the good old Google and found a video on YouTube that fit my needs

I discovered that:
✔️ you can create a Cloud Function
✔️ use that URL in the Firebase email template
✔️ activate the user in the function
✔️ automatic redirect to the webapp
➡️ zero blank page

After explicitly explaining this solution to Copilot it implemented the function perfectly.
I only change the URL in the Firebase email template and that’s it.

Conclusion
I was struck by the fact that the AI was convinced it couldn’t be done, even after I suggested the right path, and couldn’t connect the pieces but once guided step-by-step, the implementation was flawless
